I am burying Valiente.
And you don't want Tie Guai Li to see?
Chiu's book says it's one of
the proper Taoist funerary steps.
Holy shit, this is a lot of rules.
You really won't cut your hair for 49 days
after you bury that thing?
I knows it's a long time,
but I want Valiente to find peace.
[meows]
[gasps]
What did I do wrong?
[Jesus] Come on, get up.
Oh, Chiu.
Oh, no.
He's been bitten apart,
just like the others back in town.
We need to go to the police.
They'll want to see his body.
[clattering]
You need to calm down, now!
They're going to look for clues.
They're not going to desecrate him.
[grunts]
Breathe!
Remember Sifu's words.
"Be the gentle rain, not the angry wave.
What is soft is strong."
[grunts]
End this tantrum now,
or I will end it for you!
[Jesus] Don't fight!
Please!
Chiu's dead.
Domingo's dead.
The only choice they have left is
whether to be food for worms or crows.
So, what does it matter?
Niños, ya!
We're going to the police,
end of discussion.
[sighs]
A lot of dope in 'Nam.
Dope made you quiet,
made you sink down real low.
But whatever this cat was on...
this here is out of control.
All police work rests on motive,
but how do you determine
the motivations of a...
of a monster?
Monster?
You're speaking figurative, right, Mexico?
You saw that... that thing, right?
Hey, I know this shit is raw,
but you got to get your head
in the game, dig?
Can't be having no lady cop
go jellyfish on me.
[grunts]
[door opens]
Hm.
I'm gonna be a goddamn hero
when this is over.
[sighs]
[speaking in Spanish]
Uh-uh-uh. As the U.S. agent,
I'm in charge here,
so you can address your answers to me.
In English, please.
I don't speak Mexican.
[speaking in Spanish]
You are not in charge
of this investigation,
you shit!
Listen here, woman!
According to
the bi-national task force agree--
[grunts]
Who are you calling "woman"?
[whistles]
-You no-good gringo piece of--
-How can I be a gringo?
-I'm blacker than licorice at midnight.
-[Isabela] Excuse me.
We need your help.
I'm sorry, Isabela.
I'm very busy.
Sorry, lady. It's just...
Take a number and get in line, you know?
Hey, wait up!
Where we going?
[sighs]
[Isabela sighs] Come on, Jesus.
It's time we buried our dead.
Do whatever you want.
I'm busy.
[groans]
[sniffles]
Call a meeting of every jefe.
[rumbling]
I want more of your tears.
Will you give them to me willingly?
Then...
I'm sorry.
Remember...
I am doing this for us.
[grunting]
A few tears do this.
A few more make a man a monster.
What power might be hidden in your blood?
[panting]
[sobbing]
Something keeps digging Valiente up!
I messed up a step in the Dao!
[chuckles]
The Dao is not a linear process
set in stone.
It makes no demands.
But this book, it was in your room.
[chuckles]
Every statement ever written,
I promise you, is secretly a question.
Ah.
I see the problem.
You have made a serious error.
Tell me, Sifu. Help me!
[Chiu] Nature is harmony, child.
You don't need to push the river to flow.
Peace comes not by struggle,
but by letting things go their own way.
Valiente may soon be a flower,
or nothing.
We cannot know.
You give yourself endless tasks,
but our only task is to accept.
Of course, you already know all of this.
You just do not know it yet.
Be a flower.
Be nothing.
I release you.
Hm.
Sifu, you had a tattoo?
Who were you before you were our father?
[caws]
-[Isabela grunts]
-[cawing]
[sighs] Jesus, Silencio...
where are you when I need you?
[gasps]
It's OK.
I get it, Silencio.
The devil sent that creature
to punish us for,
you know, what we do for serrano.
[scoffs] Pendejo!
There's no such thing as the devil.
Oh, yeah?
Then what was it?
The Chupacabra!
Or-Or... maybe...
two Chupacabras. [chuckles]
Fight me.
What? W-Why?
[sighs] I can't stop thinking.
The thoughts... [hiccups]
...are like bees in my brain.
So... fight me!
[whimpers]
It's OK. No, it's OK.
Y-You're gonna win.
[whimpers]
[grunts]
No, no, no, no. Not like that.
Extend your fingers.
Strike here,
here, here.
Please, I don't--
Do it, or I'll put you
in the hospital, cabrón!
[whimpers]
[grunting]
[vomiting]
[Jesus] Thank you.
Again!
[hushed chatter continues]
[man] I don't know what to think.
Did you see what I saw?
What are we doing here?
Where is the jefe of San Simon,
Orphan Maker?
You think he would give up his anonymity
after his town was attacked by a--
A what?
I heard it was a Chupacabra.
[Balde] As men who seek power,
we should be glad for the rumor mill.
It churns out fear,
and fear is power, yes?
It was you who sent that maniac
to San Simon.
Did you do it to smoke out
the hidden jefe?
I heard the jefe has invisible assassins.
San Simon blesses them
so they can strike without being seen,
even in the light of day.
Tell me, do you, a grown man,
really believe in magic,
superstition, like a child?
If superstition is so silly,
why do you worship Santa Nucifera?
She's as silly a thing as any goat sucker.
What is the goal of our business?
Our goal is to expand,
by consuming those with whom we compete.
This is only natural,
because nature -
nature is competition.
This drink...
this is why you are here.
It is power.
Raw, holy power
in material form.
[grunting]
How is this possible?
Enjoy, my friends.
The more you drink,
the stronger you become.
[gulping]
[retching]
[roars]
[snarling]
[Balde] If you won't come out of
your hiding place,
jefe of San Simon...
then I'll tear it apart.
[sniffs]
Stay with me, Sifu.
[Jesus] Isabela?
Oh, is this your plan?
Mess with Chiu's things enough and...
[hiccups and groans]
...he'll notice
and come back from the dead?
Y tú qué?
You think if you crawl deep enough
into that bottle, pain won't find you?
[sighs] Look how easily
we fall apart without him.
[sighs]
[groans]
[hiccups]
[grunts]
Hm?
Holy Virgin, please stop testing me.
Fine, Holy Virgin, be that way.
Oh, no, you don't! [grunts]
[grunting]
Yah! [laughs]
You can't knock out Jesus!
Nobody can knock out Jesus!
Except for...
[snoring]
[jefes snarling] Hungry.
Hungry.
[clattering]
[sniffs]
[coughing]
Ay, Dios Mío!
That's practically dynamite.
[gasps]
[groans]
[spluttering]
It's OK to cry, Silencio.
What shall we play?
[chuckles]
Same as always.
[guitar continues playing]
Sifu...
it's the story of you.
[groans] I am starting to hate fingers.
[Lena singing "Mal Hombre"]
A-ha!
[snarling]
[gasps]
[screams]
[grunting]
[jefe screams]
[snarling]
The hell? W-Why did it...?
[retches]
They're gonna keep coming.
[snarling] Hungry.
[sighs]
[Lina] You think you're the "Mal Hombre."
That's why you always want me to sing it.
You want to be punished.
Silencio, you're not bad.
You're just... hurting.
[Lina gasps]
[sighs]
Oh, no. The jow.
It's gonna blow. Isabela!
[gasps] That's it, Jesus.
We can use their hunger against them.
Keep them away from me,
until I tell you otherwise.
Isabela!
[jefes snarling]
Thank you, Sifu.
For everything.
[inhales]
Be a flower.
Be nothing.
I release you.
Now!
Let them through!
[jefes snarling]
So selfish, Silencio.
Where were you when we needed you?
I...
[sighs]
[Isabela sobbing]
[cat shrieks]
[Isabela] It worked.
Chiu, you were right!
I let Valiente go, and now he's safe!
[Isabela giggling]
[vehicle approaching]
[flies buzzing]
What the hell that say?
Like a... a folk healer.
Healer?
Did a good job on that owl.
[driver grunts]
Goddamn Mexican mumbo-jumbo.
[bell jingles]